it is the morning of [the] 21st of March 1923 and
Prasad Rao, Keshavrao, Shall be a well-to-do lawyer in the beatific town of qin, Wada in central
[India] his headed back home from Court in a hurry
He has just heard that his wife Cornelia has gone into labor and might deliver [anytime] now
As was the [norm] in those days children were mostly delivered at home under the ministration of Midwives
As he pieces anxiously in the expectation of good news little does
he know that an event of rare auspiciousness is about to occur in his house and
That his house has been chosen for the witnessing of a miracle
the signs are potent us it is a day of
equinoxes when the diurnal and the nocturnal durations are exactly equal a
moment of astral equipoise and [balanced]
At the stroke of [noon] the sweet cries of a newly born child
reverberate through the house
The Miracle has taken place Nirmala Salva is born
into the arms of a joyous and delighted father is given a child who will be an agent of supreme divinity in this world an
incarnation of all the great spirits that have inhabited the [Earth] from time to time an
Incarnation of adi Shakti the Primal Positive Force that Governs the universe an
incarnation of every form of Godhead Known to man
Today we know that beautiful fair girl as her holiness mataji Nirmala Devi
the creator of Sergio
you
The story of her life is a story of unending miracles
Miracles brought about by the amazing power of her divinity and unending love
The incredible power of good that has been unleashed by her has worked like a soothing balm in this
acrimonious and largely negative goal, and
today, we are able to enjoy the fruit of her labor and have a path laid out for us to unlock [her] own potential and
Ascend towards the final spiritual epiphany through the path of Sahaja yoga
serge means
Simple Sahaja is with you
The whole Power is with you
to become one with the divine
But that power has been distorted by using different
incarnations and fighting for exams Hindus fighting Muslims
See Christians fighting
non-Christians, [I] mean all sorts of things, so this is what is
the loss of truth and
on which I insisted that they should
See the truth within themselves when they will discover it themself you will come and it has worked
The house she was born in was one among many owned by her father in Turin Vara
Where he had a good practice as a lawyer
the architecture of the house was typical of the houses in [that] area a
regular Christian Sahibs bungalow with Gothic arches and stained-glass windows
Pk's [Alway] was on good terms with the British establishment and had been conferred the title of Rao Saheb
For his services as a recruiting officer in the first world war
This was 1923 and England was just about recovering from the ravaging effects of the first world war
the Great [Indian] movement for Independence was beginning [to] Gather momentum and
Mahatma Gandhi was emerging as a key leader of the Indian national congress party which was spearheading the movement
But the Salva Household was unaware of its political destiny as yet
Years passed peacefully [at] the beautifully constructed bungalow in chin Vara
and
You would most probably have heard the laughter of children as little nirmala her brothers and sisters and other little friends
Gathered together to play and make Merry
This was the house of Shri Mataji's earliest days as a child [a] house
That is still remembered [by] her with that special feeling of Nostalgia and joy in her heart I
Remember the house of my father
Which was [a] very nice house?
my Father's had
Dogs in the house, and I was very fond of them
also, he had one monkey and
I always used to go and talk to the monkey
give him food
But one thing I remember is a parrot which was very much understanding me
My childhood has been very good
I was very fond of trees
and also of the Garden
flowers [I]
was very much fond of and
my father
especially he
looked after that side of my life
He taught me what towers are
what fruits are I was very young, but used to teach me and show me all these things and
Since days I've developed a great
sense of
colors and Fragrance I
had tremendous love love for animals
love for my family
My brothers and sisters also my cousins. [I] loved them very much
Anybody came to my house. I?
would take out some mangoes or something as a little girl I used to offer to them and
main thing is my love was so
Inviting that whenever they came also this to find out where is nirmala?
My mother was a very
careful woman
She used to give a bath herself
She would not leave it with her. I asked
Dobby had servants, but all the time she [was] looking after me [I]
[many], [I] grew up. She said that I knew you are a girl and girls must be looked after
My father was another
very gay gentleman
He was a lawyer very well-known
very intent
but also very good at building houses
This then is the blessed house where Shri mataji spent her earliest days [as] a child
These are the blessed tiles on which Shri Mataji's tiny feet walked when she was a mere toddler
These sacred balls have absorbed the very first vibrations of our beloved mother
In every nook and cranny of this house are such wonderful vibrations that even casual visitors
Suddenly feel a palpable change in their consciousness
This is the room where mataji was born
This is the absolute sanctum Sanctorum of this bungalow that has now become [a] holy temple
When they come to this holy house they feel the presence of mother in every corner of this house they feel blessed
they feel as if mother has just been here and
Even non sahaja Yogi's when they pass [nearby] they get attracted to this place
everybody knew about this birthplace and
Finally after some negotiations. This was acquired on 14th of july
after that this place had been renovated and
It has been ensured that all the old things all the old fixtures doors
Mirrors have been retained as far as possible and wherever we they were not
functional or were in a very bad shape
Same type of material has been used in the story
[so] [one] can say that this whole
Building has been brought back to [its] old glory in the same way the same material
And it is looking beautiful as you are seeing
In readiness for the expectedly large number of Sahaja Yogi's who would like to visit the shrine
Elaborate arrangements are being made for their accommodation [a]
New [international] Ashram has been constructed at a village called Linga. Which is 10 kilometers from Shamwari
It is a beautiful site with green hills all around and a check Dam which adds to its charm
we have about 35 acres of land and
This place will become extremely important for all sahaja Yogi's
So we have planned in phases first of all we are planning to have accommodation for about 500 people
then it will go [mm] as per requirement the accommodation will keep on [increasing] and
Then we will have infrastructure services like we will have a very good dining, or museum
Library and whatever is required for the comfort of Sahaja Yogi's that will come up
Yay, I'm sorry
Sahaja Yogi [bye-bye], no Kalia
his bodyguard Ki baate
he s a pavitra Stan
[D'sky] cult 'no I'm sorry Yogi Vibin a [mesa] Cartina
eh Chief, Na Brasa, [Hosaka]
[Turkestan] ho [Ja] happy Duniya ke sorry low
Sammy Sammy [Perry] Hopper a car key this, Bhoomika Sports car key
opening up
[petrarCa]
Most important thing about this house is that at that [time]?
There must not have been much habitation here and what they like most
my parent with heart failure is that there should be plenty of light and plenty of Air fresh air and
There must be a new tree always
And there must be a veranda and all spacious rooms
Get your fruits
This house as told by my mother
was
Designed by her because she was a mathematician
so having graduated from Ferguson [college] with mathematics, but it was she
who
resisted that
purpose should
renounce the title of krauss ahead which was conferred upon him by the British and
[plugg] take a plunge into the freedom struggle
so
[Papa] decided to sell this house and
migrate to knock
When Shri Mataji reached the age of four the family migrated to knock for a much bigger town where she joined a missionary school
It was at Nagpur that PK Sal Ray and his wife Cornelia
Decided to Join the [hindon] movement for Independence with full Gusto
The decision brought about a sea change in the lifestyle of the whole family from a position of wealth and affluence thus always
Voluntarily Chose a life of austerity
The worldly comforts that came with the friendship of the British had to be forfeited
From now on it was simple living and high thinking for the Solvus
You'll be amazed my father burnt all his suits
They were [sustaining]
My mother burnt all my sorrows
They used to spin their own clothes and [wear] [them] I
only one poked throughout my education, but
We never dressed and never grumble and never said that our father should have looked after us and done something
Why did you just sacrifice everything for the country never never never?
That quality was created. I should say by [Mark] [Magadi]. He made everybody
So transformed into a new personality
ever see Gandhiji had a special charm [I]
Don't know how he managed
He was like that of me does just anybody he became transformers
Mahatma Gandhi was extremely fond of children and had a special affection for the intelligent and quick-witted [ned] [Mana]
Over the years the interaction she had with the mahatma shaped her ideas and philosophy to quite an extent
In Sahaja yoga you will find quite a bit of Gandhi and thinking
Throughout, if you study the way all these people were brought up this one thing very [common] is sacrifice
I've seen it with my own eyes
Such people in this country who you may call lee gently, but I have seen it
Thousands of people were killed and butchered children died nobody shed tears nobody shed tears
as
Years Progressed PK Salva got into the thick of political activity and became quite close to Mahatma Gandhi
He even went to jail for six months because of his political
Affiliations, my father was a congressman and was when today why?
Join a school year later on when I was five years of it
It's a call as central for law school. I was in that school
But they were missionaries
so when my father was arrested
They threw us out of the school
So I joined another national school called as big girls Colleges
and it is one of the best schools in the
whole of what Depredation
In our family people were playing
all kinds of things like Badminton
Cricket and
from very childhood I was
interested in all these games and
Badminton specially I was a champion once you know she challenged Bolivia and
She said that um we have a wrestling match and it is is the new [leg] one
Young Nirmala was also seized with the Nationalistic z
She was always extremely energetic and was a natural leader among her peers
in
1942 during the quit [India] Movement
She participated in many daring episodes of picketing and was also part of an underground group that carried out many secret missions
They called me. We're all college students and
we all wanted [to] stop the colleges then some are other way wat into
another kind of mysterious
active ways to distribute bulletin system for them we have to call them bullets and
sprague
disorder among students
That time students were very alert
That we should have [our] independence
We should be a free country and people [who] are not so dishonest that they are now
After that, I joined science college because I wanted to do medicine
but science college
We had a strike and I became the [leader] of the students
So they asked me to get out of the college
So I had to leave the college
Then I went to lucknow to study in Isabella Thurman college. That's also another missionary
but from there I did my interns [and]
Then I did my medicine from Lahore
in the year 1947
[Pks] always was a member of the central legislative assembly and daily while nebula was studying in a fourth year of medicine at Lahore
It was at this juncture that a tall young man was introduced into the Solvay household his name was Chandrika Prasad Srivasa
[chinguga] Prasad Srivasa was a college friend of Novelas older brother Narendra Kumar salving
He was temporarily working for the ministry of Commerce in Delhi and needed a place to stay for a few days
Narendra Kumar invited him to [stay] as a house guest at the pharaoh Sharad house and see [Peace] Rostow accepted the invitation
Little did he know that this was a move that would change his life in such a significant Manner
He soon became very popular in the large solve a family both among the elders and the young
It was natural therefore for narendra Kumar to think of him as a suitable match for his sister nirmala
In our country in those days
There was no choice nothing
whatever [parent] said you have to listen, so
According to the choice of my parents they selected him
He he was a friend of my brother and my brother said is a very nice person. [he's] there
So they married me to him. That's what it is
7th of April 1947 near [Melas] [Alwey] and Cp. She was though were married in a simple Civil ceremony
It was [a] unique marriage from all angles there was hardly anything common between the two
[now] this whole situation of a very
remarkable Kind I
Came and I [told] you from a from poor families and server to families
prost Ab lachemann families you know stanford oldest and
[shiro] the family fighting the British
Totally on the other side, so it was a totally different background my background was totally different
and I
was from [Jupe]
[Headbutt] to the Community She will not be
another community or you know
For there was nothing common between us as far [as] heretical
But despite the regional cultural and linguistic differences there was a very strong common point that they both shared
their love for the country their love for India
and
Soon they both saw their biggest dream come true the dream of seeing india as a free nation
15 August we were together
Standing with the whole family [Sadly] family in front of the secretariat
Watching the [Union] [Flag] [going] down
the Indian flag growing up India became independent to be together
Which we wanted [very] much
Saw, India rising
in the early years of her marriage
Nirmala [Sal] we lived like [a] normal housewife with her extraordinary husband they soon had two lovely [daughters]
Kalpana and Saad and [Nirmala's] life was woven around their upbringing in education
Wherever he went as an officer of the prestigious, Indian administrative service, Mr.
C p shrivastav distinguished himself with his extreme efficiency
Honesty and Academic Brilliance
[Shri], [Mataji] was right beside CP. Service though in all the uPs and downs of his high office
She was no silent housewife in fact she took active interest in the affairs of the state and was part of many a discussion
Which eventually shaped the National policy?
The tashkent agreement was a high point in the diplomatic life of Mr.. [CP] [shrawasti]
However, the untimely death of the prime minister while still at Ashland was like a bolt from the blue and was a huge loss to
the Nation
For mr.. C p shrivastav and his family it was a great personal loss
Soon Afterwards, Mr.. [Cp]
[Rostov] was made the Chairman and managing director of the shipping corporation of India and the whole family shifted to bombay here
Too he excelled beyond all expectations and was lauded universally for making Sc
I the largest public Sector company in India in the shortest possible time
In the Meanwhile Shri mataji was readying herself for a much larger role in the world
Both her daughters were more or less settled in life, and she was now in a position to give more time to her deepest interest
spirituality
Until now she had been an excellent wife and a loving mother, but it was time to fulfill her true destiny
[it] was time to become the loving mother to the whole world
From my childhood. I have [been] a spiritual person very [vision]. I read all the
[Keita's] and
other
Saints and all these in India in Marathi, we have great saints. [I] read them [also]
But I was surprised they were not telling the truth
the truth that we all can get
self-realization that we have got that power within us and
This is what?
Made me thing take up
spirituality
The deep questions of the universe and the self had been knowing in a heart for a long time on the 5th of may
1970 on a lonely beach of Nar [Gol] about 150 kilometres from Mumbai all of a Sudden
She had an incredible moment of [self] [realization] and in that moment of immense clarity she saw a vision of the indescribable
ultimate
From then on
She knew she had come upon this earth for a very special purpose
To share with humanity the glimpse of the beautiful truth that she had personally experienced
And also to tell them that it was within their powers to ascend to that fragrant rarefied realm themselves [I]
started
Going to different people supposed to be
preaching about spirituality
talking about
spirituality
But what I found themselves are not spiritual
very Greedy
Trying to want everything
Running after women I said what sort of things these are if they are like this, what are they going to teach me?
So I gave up hopes
Then I started
searching myself
within myself and
[one] day in A
Forest I was with lots of people who were seeking
and I went near the
big
the [love] cook anything [to] see how I am there I was sitting and suddenly a
Light came into me, and I saw it clearly
that
I'm a satisfied soul. I do need anything. [I] do want it
And that is the time when I saw few things happening
Thus was born sahaja Yoga a
Wonderful joyous means of achieving
self-realization a new way of life a
glittering path to happiness health and the fulfillment of pure desires a
Never before tried method of all, [Masse]
Self-realization through which thousands of people could get a connection to their spirit and thereby their inner transformation
Sahaja yoga was Mataji's gift to mankind
in
1974 Mr.. C p shrivastav was elected as [the] secretary-general of the international maritime organization in London
This appointment was a peaking achievement in an already glorious career
and it proved fortuitous for the movement of Sahaja Yoga because in London Sahaja Yoga found an
International Platform
It all worked out
Why my husband should get a job in England [that]?
[I] should go with him there
There I read people have that kind
it's a
Fragrance of spirituality [in] space and
Soon the world Began to discover the amazing truth of Shri Mataji's teachings
Starting with a few seekers. She began to help people get self-realization by raising their Kundalini
you
Kundalini is the Subtle primordial energy that exists within all human beings and which upon rising
Has the ability of giving you complete self-knowledge?
The manifestation of self-knowledge could be felt as a cool breeze over one's head or on one's pounds
with such immediate
palpable and
Verifiable effects of Shri mataji spiritual power the popularity and success of sahaja yoga was a foregone conclusion
Today Sahaja Yogi's spread across 80 countries it bars
No one from entering its fold and charges no money for its activities
It does not require you to change your beliefs of creams
But to assimilate and practice the values of sahaja yoga while continuing [to] follow your own religion
She has traveled to almost every part of the world and addressed humongous gatherings there
Mataji has on occasion given self-realization to as many as [a] hundred thousand people at one time
Shri Mataji's life has indeed been a long and glorious journey
This long journey has not only spanned the globe, but has also touched the hearts of a myriad people
thousands of Lives have been transformed and
Countless hearts have been changed and [the] shining love that Shri mataji and kindles through Sahaja yoga keeps traveling from one heart to another
But perhaps it is time [for] us to remember that this great journey began in a small little quaint town called [Shin]
Wada in this very edifice where one can so clearly feel the divine power of the mother?
For all those who are seeking to ascend towards?
self-Realization
For all those who want to feel the most amazing presence of Shri Mataji through the powerful
Vibrations that can be felt in every corner of the house [qin], Wada is the place to come?
I think that house
Has lots of vibrations?
That's what people tell me
And where I was born was a small little room. That's what they tell me
Where I was born and from there
They feel the vibrations coming
Whenever they holy meditate there and they were telling me they have their tremendous work
Tremendous work, I mean, I can't tell you how people can work out
you